What if marriage is the ultimate
self-development hack? Welcome back to
the art of accomplishment. In this
episode, Joe and Tara came on to Eric
Torrenberg's podcast called Modern
Relationships. And we're going to be
airing that episode here today. Joe and
Tara are going to talk about how they
met and how they turned their
partnership into a dojo for
self-discovery. We could weaponize
any good spiritual tool for
communication. we could make nonviolent
communication super violent. Every one
of our friends told us we should get
divorced. Every one of our friends told
us that it was horrible and that we
should and we were like just reenacting
our parents' trauma on each other.
There's something else to it too, which
is there was always I can't speak for
Joe, but for me like a knowing like,
yeah, this is shitty. All of this is
shitty and I am supposed to be here. So,
if that's the truth, then what what do I
need to learn here? what what tools what
help do we need to get? There's this
great story that one of our therapists
told us that a you know a guy was
realizing he was blaming his wife for
way too much stuff at some point because
he went to the bathroom and missed the
toilet and he noticed his first thought
was god damn it she moved the toilet.
Someone's triggering you. Great. There
is freedom there.
Whether you stay in the relationship or
not that is a source of freedom. So much
of our behavior is just pushing love
away because we are so scared of the
annihilation that it will cause.
And it does. It causes annihilation. You
know, it's like a deep tissue massage in
that way. If you resist, you're [__]
It's going to hurt.
[Music]
Today on Modern Relationships, I'm
talking to Joe Hudson and Tara Howie,
the extraordinary couple behind Art of
Accomplishment, whose coaching has
helped CEOs like Sam Alman. Today, we'll
dive into their remarkable journey from
a relationship that friends once deemed
doomed to a powerful multi-dimensional
partnership. Also, I want to take a
moment and personally recommend Joe's
excellent podcast, which we'll link in
the show notes. Let's dive in. Tara Joe,
welcome to Modern Relationships. Thanks
so much for coming on. Yay. Thanks for
having us. So on this show we talk about
how to find a great partner and how to
make a great partnership. Um and so
maybe we could start with how did you
guys find each other? How did you guys
choose each other? Tara hates telling
this story. She hates it. You just asked
like the worst question for her. I love
telling this story. So I am so excited.
Tara, please. I don't hate it. I love
it. And it actually feels quite sacred
to me. And in the telling I feel like it
first of all it is a very long
synchronistic story. It went on and on
and on and on and it felt very
synchronistic and in the telling of it I
feel like I'm always losing or missing
the the magic that was of that was that
time. So I really hate and it also feels
really like
mine and Joe's like so telling it I'm
like go make your own story.
[Laughter]
Okay. So Joe maybe you do the honors.
away. This is the best. We can learn
from it. I'm scared. If Tar tells me to,
you know, I will, but I What do you
want? You're You're welcome to. You just
You're just going to watch me kind of
sweat it out. I love it when we tell it
together. So, I I'll tell some of it and
then hopefully Tara will chime in. Also,
do you have like an hour, Eric? Because
it's a long story. It's exactly what we
have. That's it. The whole thing is just
going to be us telling our Meeting Up
story. Um, so the first thing that
happened through a long set of
extraordinary coincidences, much like
the ones that we're about to tell you,
hopefully we are both going to tell you,
um, I was I ended up in the desert
recording an album. Um, and I met these
folks. Um, is still godfather to my one
of our daughters, uh, and one of the the
folks. And so they came to watch us play
music in San Francisco. And they decided
a good thing to do was to stand on this
corner of Hate Ashberry
with a newspaper
and then ask every good-looking woman
who walked by, "Hey, do you know where
Hate Ashberry is?" And they met Tara.
And
the next day, uh, we are out we are
driving to Mil Valley to go to my
girlfriend who wasn't Tara at the time's
house who lived in a treehouse in Mil
Valley. And uh and we're on some really
weird obscure back street and Tara
drives up in a Miata with a long flowing
scarf and they're like, "Hey, that's the
woman we met yesterday."
And then we saw each other and Tara
thought when she saw me, let's get
going,
who's the boring guy with the bull cut
and the clothes that all match and are
uni unicolored? Yeah. And I thought,
who's the woman who needs so much
attention?
And then uh what happened? Then the next
the next one was hiking.
Next one was hiking. Hint.
I see you inviting me with those
inviting eyebrows.
I was hiking with my my best friend on
Mount Tam. We were on magic mushrooms
and we bumped in. We're coming down. I
called it the fern trail. I don't know
what the I've always called it the fern
trail. I don't know what its real name
is. Um, and right the two paths
converged and two people were coming
upon us and we met Joe and his
girlfriend and his girlfriend hitchhiked
into Mir Beach to work and Joe and Tza
and I hitchhiked back up to our cars.
Yeah. And we and we found out that
I was in a band and they were in a
circus and they needed a band to tour
with them. And so we decided that we
were going to meet at some other point.
And then
and then T tears just started calling
Joe and inviting him to every perform.
We did all sorts of like random fun
crazy nonsensical,
whimsical, delightful. Nonsensical being
a very key word for that performance art
around San Francisco. And Joe just
should call, she called, you know, we
called and invited everybody and she
called it. So Joe was just at all of
them. So we kept bumping into each other
and then we there was a meeting to
discuss how we would maybe work
together, perform together. And at that
meeting we found out that we had a
mutual friend who'd been trying to set
us up for 6 months.
And so unfortunately we played with her,
played a prank on her. We both called
her and told her that we had had a dream
where we had looked through a keyhole
and saw that her with this other person
and uh she was not happy. She was not
happy. She had called like 20 of her
friends and said, "You've got to listen
to these two messages."
So, she was it wasn't the nicest thing
that we did.
But yeah, there was really still no
interest at all, I think, at all. But
the we kept on getting thrown into each
other again. And I think I think you had
interest in me when you actually heard
the finished album at Burning Man. Like
that was the first time you were peaked
a little bit. Not romantic interest, but
like oh, he's worth attention.
Oh, he's got he's got a purple soul. He
might not have purple hair, but he's got
a purple soul. And I think it was a
birdie man where I first I did we didn't
actually run into each other but I had
heard through tears that she was making
roads on a bulldozer and I was well I
was whatever if a woman can use power
tools and drive a bulldozer I'm in. And
so I had broken up with my girlfriend
uh and at some point or another we I
think I called you up and like just
awkwardly as hell said I'm not into
monogamy. I just finished that thing. I
um I don't I'm not interested, but
clearly we're supposed to know each
other. Can we Can we hang out? I would
love to I would love to spend time with
you. Awkward. I mean, just horribly
awkward. Clearly, we're supposed to know
each other seems like a good line to me.
That was the good line. That was the the
rest was all
awkward. Awkward. It was sweet. That
line was sweet. Okay. Okay. So then from
there I was breaking up with my Burning
Man love of three days
[Laughter]
and I invited Susie who had been trying
to set Joe and I up over to my house
just to come and hang out with me in Mil
Valley. And she came over but she didn't
come alone. She came with Joe
and we had another awkward night. No
interest. Very awkward. Yeah, it was I
think Yeah. We all thought we were all
kind of socially paranoid with each
other and with the whole thing was just
bad and but we had already agreed to go
on a hike the next day and I had um
multiple friends from the circus
spending the night at my house and I was
like I'm just going to go with the
preppy guy and have a hike. I'll be back
in an hour. This won't take long. I just
said he said he said there there's a
kismmet or something here so I want to
listen to that but I'll be back in an
hour. This will be fast. Yeah. And I was
not looking forward to it. And then we
got together. We were both late. We
didn't meet where we were both late,
which you've never been late again. So
that was sort of a false that was a
false flag. Yeah, we were both late and
we didn't meet where we were supposed
to. We met on another street. I was
like, "Hey, hey, hey." And we decided to
go on a hike and we were gone all
afternoon and about 40, 50 feet into the
hike, it was like, "This is the guy I'm
going to marry." What? Yep. I knew it,
too. We were literally talking about
like what kind of house we want to live
in, which we still don't live in.
You said you wanted small and we got
that. Oh, yeah. Okay, good. Wait, is it
terrible? How did you know? I just
remember we were in Bolinus hiking up,
you know, the Bass Lake Trail and we
were on the up the first part of the
uphill and whatever discussion we were
having, it was just I just knew. I was
like, "Oh, this is I'm" and I just knew
it was not logical. It made zero logical
sense. Um,
but it was just it was just a knowing.
It defies
it defies common thinking to this day.
And so is your advice to like what is a
lesson that people could take from it?
Is it that one day you two will have a
mutual uh knowing when talking to
someone? um or is is your thing like
when you're giving advice to people
about how to find their partner, how do
you extrapolate from My first advice
would be do all the work you can on
yourself. I had been I had spent a
summer I was like I'm going to be
celibate this summer. So that whole
summer until Burning Man, I was like,
I'm just going to work on me. And I was
doing relationship work, therapy with
lots of different modalities, and
working on my dad's stuff, on my mom's
stuff. And I was and so I was really
working on my relationship patterns and
early patterns and working on me and
saying no to things that weren't right
and kind of thinking about what do I
want? And I really came down to one
thing I wanted. I wanted someone who
wanted to learn and grow as much as I
wanted to learn and grow. And like that
that boiled down to like that is the
thing that is most important. It doesn't
like all of the other things like oh do
they have like purple hair and a purple
soul and are they wild and crazy and
artistic? All of that was falling aside
and just boiling down to this one thing.
And I think that in the conversation
with Joe I recognized, oh here's someone
with that same
hunger. Yeah, that that's what I would
say in looking for a person is that
I I one of the reasons I hate telling
the story in public like in this kind of
a setting is because it sets the
expectation of that kind of meeting. Um
but but I my experiences I think it's
there's two things. One is and it was it
wasn't like oh and we knew it and we
were happily ever after and here we are
laughing like this. It was like absolute
[__] hell for three years. Like it
was they every one of our friends told
us we should get divorced. Every one of
our friends told us that it was horrible
and that we should and we were like just
reenacting our parents' trauma on each
other and that the only thing that that
pulled us through was that we were both
fully dedicated to our own
transformation.
And I think most of the fighting stopped
when we stopped trying to transform each
other and just worked on ourselves. But
either way, that's what we were focused
on. We were not gonna
we were not going to compromise
by saying, "Okay, well, that's just the
way it is." We were both going to say,
"Okay, what do we have to do to to make
this work?" Cuz both of us knew very
clearly that the we didn't want to stay
married. We wanted to stay happily
married. And that that was going to
require work and growing and using
marriage as a grow as growth, a tool for
a tool for awakening or a tool for
self-development or a tool for getting
to know yourself. Yeah. Joe, you you
you've written that the leading
indicators that a relationship should
last or that one should stay in a
relationship are if people see marriage
as a as a mirror. uh if people are
committed to to to their own
self-development and if uh and if people
don't sort of uh you know indulge in too
much resentment. Yeah. So first of all I
just want to say that I just said re
marriage is a is a a mirror. So I kind
of that that was like a backhanded
compliment to myself now that you're
looking at Tara.
It's very sweet. Yeah. Um, yeah, that
that's I that I could I'm not sure I can
add anything to that, but that's I'm
curious if you think that's the case,
too. Tara, can you stay this say the
statement again? The three leading
indicators a marriage will last or that
one should stay in a marriage or if both
partners see uh the relationship and its
challenges as a reflection first and
foremost of the relationship themselves.
if both partners are committed to their
self-development and supporting each
other's growth without wanting to fix or
change the other and if if both partners
aren't playing any shame games. I'd say
there's something else too about um for
me and it might be the same thing that
you just said but my languaging would be
different. And it's like, oh,
this is a this is a long run. Like, this
is a we're not running a a dash. We're
running a 24 mile marathon. And there
might be little blips that aren't good.
And and so having having my well there
are but having patience for the whole
picture not just each little you know
learning from each slice of the pie but
holding it within a bigger context
of decades. You guys you know I only
know you in your uh in enlightened
capacities now. I can't imagine you guys
uh fighting or or killing each other. Oh
yeah. Picture a car and a sledgehammer.
What was the other a car pitchfork?
Pitchfork. car is one person using a car
as a tool. Me, it might have been a cute
little Miata. And one person holding a
pitchfork over it. One person
threatening the other with the car.
Vroom vroom. The other threatening.
That might have been like the
penultimate like bottom. Actually, the
the pit. Yeah. For for that for that
particular dip. There's been other dips
in our in our marriage economy. That was
definitely the lowest. Yeah. And were
you guys always fighting about the same
thing or what were the what were the
fights about? I I mean in a way it's do
you love me? Do you love me? Do you love
me? Are we safe? Am I safe? Am I safe?
Always like can can we can we attach? Am
I attached? Am I attached? Are you
attached? Are you attached? Who's in
charge? Who's in charge? Who's in
charge? Those are the those are the
fight. Yeah. But different, you know,
pick a topic, insert topic, but really
at the core of it like do you love me?
Are we safe? Or or I think the other way
Yeah. The other way is like uh shame
like wherever we had both had shame that
were perfectly interlocking and feeling
unseen. That was a huge part of it. And
and how did at what point did it start
getting easier or good or or what what
was sort of the transformation of of of
that like? So my experience was there
were some pitfalls before marriage, but
then after marriage there was a safety
there like oh we're in it. We're like
locked into something. And so really all
of my [__] could come out. Um, and so it
got really literally that that fight,
the pitchfork fight happened after we
got married. There was like a year
period after marriage that was
especially chaotic. And I think it was
because there was this safety of these
vows we'd taken that really
um, so that was particularly bad.
And then when did it get better? Oh, and
then after we worked through that and we
were in therapy, we were doing couples
therapy, individual therapy, we were
doing a lot of different retreat, like
we worked it and really worked um
non-violent communication and all of
these other like all everything that
goes along with that, verbal abuse and
escalation and how to deescalate instead
of escalate.
And after that year, it got much better
and we had a great period. And then it
we would have like every I don't know
was it like every did it follow like a
seven-year pattern or was probably like
a seven-year pattern we'd go through
these grow it was like the marriage used
really hard cycles to grow is how I look
at it now looking back. So we'd moved to
LA you know and years later had another
hard cycle. Having kids was another hard
cycle. Um starting to build a business
together another hard cycle. It was like
every new thing we stepped into brought
on a new kind of uh hot period where we
have so which led to I would say deeper
and deeper connection always you some
people have come on and said hey you
know friends are have some deep
knowledge about your relationships you
know when you're in a relationship
you're so sort of clouded by it you you
said that a bunch of if not all of your
friends were saying hey this is not the
the right marriage how did to what what
were they observing and why were they
wrong?
They were correctly observing toxic
behavior,
right? Both of us like toxic
communication, toxic relationship
attachment. We could weaponize we could
weaponize
any good spiritual tool for
communication. We were like, we were
amazing. We could make non-violent
communication super violent. We were
great at it. I feel like you are. What I
need is for you to be different.
In order to be safe, you need to leave.
Yeah. In for me to feel safe, I need to
be in control of you. So, they were they
were correct that the the how we were
behaving towards each other was toxic.
They were 100% correct. And and you knew
it, too, and you just couldn't change it
at the time. Oh, we changed it.
It just was a slower process. I think
that what our friends couldn't see was
the commitment
the commitment to growth because it's
not a common example out in the world.
Like most most people don't actually use
their marriage as a tool of
transformation.
So like I don't I don't I don't fault
them for it but that's I think that's
what they couldn't see and that
I am eternally grateful that that that
we could see. You you uh shared this in
a podcast once. You said we find
ourselves attracted to certain people
because they have an instinctual way of
finding the person who can trigger us
the best and on the other hand give us
the opportunity for mutual healing.
Yeah. You guys triggered each other the
best. Mhm. Clearly,
Eric, Eric, there's something else to
it, too, which is there was always I
can't speak for Joe, but for me, like a
knowing like, yeah, this is shitty. All
of this is shitty, and I am supposed to
be here. I don't know why. I don't know
what, but I know I I know I'm not
supposed to leave, Joe. Like, it was
just a knowing. And okay, so if that's
the truth, then what what do I need to
learn here? What what tools what help do
we need to get? Because that same
knowing I had when I when we were
hiking, it was like I'm going to marry
him. That shows up again and again.
Like, nope, we're still
we're still supposed to be doing this
even through really long hard times.
Like, nope, there's something here for
us, for me. I'm supposed to be here. I
also have a thought that I'm I'm not
sure if it's right and I'm not sure if
it's complete yet, but I would say the
first major things got better, things
were hard and we learned a lesson and
they got better was it's never about the
other person.
You know, it's never there's a tendency.
There's this great story that one of our
therapists told us that a you know, a
guy was realizing he was blaming his
wife for way too much stuff at some
point because he went to the bathroom
and missed the toilet. And he noticed
his first thought was, "God damn it, she
moved the toilet."
And so there was something about, okay,
we're not we're not no longer is it
about the other person. It's always
about us. That doesn't mean that you're
doing something wrong. It means that
your behavior, your attitude, your
ability to have an open heart and love
is always yours. It's never the other
person's. Um, but it doesn't mean that
you're the one at fault. It just means
that that's that's your that's what
that's a garden you tend towards. The
second thing, the second big one for me
was
was around the kids. And for me, the
learning in that one was
like
it was the moment that I said
Terra's the CEO of the house and I'm
going to follow along and do whatever
I'm told around the kids in the house
uh and unless it doesn't feel right for
months and after months if it doesn't
feel right I'm going to come in and I'm
going to say something. So there was
something about like a trust in the
other person, a delegation of roles, a
oh this is your role, I'm going to trust
you to do it. This is my role. I'm going
to trust me to do it. And and I think
that that was the beginning of that
cycle. The the other part of that cycle
was really understanding that both of us
are were putting in as much effort
because in those moments you just feel
like I'm overwhelmed and they're getting
their time off but they never are.
And then the third one was there was
always this kind of subtle above and
below in our relationship where whenever
we would feel shame we'd put ourselves
above the other one. And um in the last
big cycle in our marriage that all fell
away where there's just there's it's not
even possible. I don't think for me I
don't I can't speak for you Tara but I
think for you like there's just we just
can't make ourselves better than the
other person as a form of protection. It
just it just is way too [__] painful
to do. I feel like I've noticed that
I've done this in the past. If you
notice that you're making yourself
superior to someone to make yourself
feel better to be the martyr or victim
or or something uh or as a way of how do
you stop doing or what's important to
keep in mind? What's the feeling under
it? What's the what's the protecting
that making self better or um superior
is for me always a protection mechanism?
There's some shame or grief or anger or
something. I don't want to feel
something. Yeah. even in a a role of
like I'm the victim. It's like, oh, what
am I not feeling here? Often my own
empowerment, my own choice,
my own capacity
or my own grief at the ways I I have
been a victim traditionally. I want to
go back to the the the choosing period
um before marriage because you guys also
did some interesting um things together
that others may may learn from because
it's common that someone will you know
may maybe they won't know right away
that they'll marry you know they're
going to marry the person but they'll
have a connection or they'll be
triggered the best and they'll be like
wow this this person there's there's
something here you know there's some
something very alive maybe it's instable
but I should sort of explore it and
improve it or or maybe it has potential
what do you what what can we learn from
what what happened after you guys had
that initial electricity or or what do
you tell in terms of the process of
evaluating? I think I I think you're
referring to Terara's requirements for
us to get married to be married. I think
is what you're required.
We had to go to a therapist together. We
had to do a silent retreat together and
we had to backpack in some harsh
conditions like travel and harsh
conditions for four to six months. And
if we could survive all that, then we
would survive married.
I still love my conditions. Like if I'm
proud of like anything in life, there's
a lot of things I'm proud of, but that's
one of it. One of the things I I would
say I'm incredibly proud of. Like, oh,
therapy, working on on ourselves
individually and as a couple and having
all those skills is important. So, we
have to do that. Meditation, sitting in
silence for 10 days was a key part of my
practice. if you're not, if you're gonna
think that was lame and stupid, then
this isn't going to work. Which is
ironic because later on she was like,
"Stop meditating.
Go get a job
and traveling backpack like, oh, can we
really travel in hard situations and
work together as a team?" Do you
recommend other people have their own
version of uh requirements or what
advice do you give for how to evaluate a
prospective life partner?
Or is that the wrong question? I am I'm
trying to figure out what was the
question that brought me I came to those
things because these those were three
things I really cared about and it's
like I really and like how much do you
care about it? Because if you care about
these three things and we have nothing
else in common, we're going to be okay.
Like I love horses. You hate horses. I
don't have to have horses. Like I love
dogs. You hate dogs. We don't have to
have dogs. No. No. Eventually you're
going to have to have dogs. Just to be
clear on that one. That one took 30
years.
Even kids, like, okay, I could give or
take kids, but can can you hang with
silence? Can you hang with therapy? Can
you hang with traveling and tricky
conditions? Like, if you can hang with
those and enjoy them, then those were
the things that mattered really. like if
I had to boil down the things that
mattered most to me at that point in my
life
and that
I I needed to matter for a partner that
was it. So it's like okay we got to do
this because if it doesn't matter to you
then I don't know I don't know how we
make it. I think the thing I noticed
speaking about it now that I don't think
I've noticed before is each one of them
was are are you willing to do the work
on yourself? Are you willing to do the
work on yourself with me? Right? So
therapy is working on yourself with each
other. Like we were in very harsh
conditions backpacking.
Oh, it's 6:00 at night. We have no place
to stay and we have no food. What you
know, are we going to yell at each
other? Are we going to handle it? And uh
meditation retreat is are you willing to
work on yourself for andor for the sake
of the marriage? And so I think they
were just three ways of saying the thing
that was most important to Tara was that
also the thing that happened to be most
important to the marriage which was are
are you willing to do the work on
yourself
for the marriage. Some people have this
sort of fear about having sort of a
dichotomy of hey if they have someone
safe that makes you feel safe then
they're not going to make me feel super
excited. or um if someone's very
embodied, they might be very sensitive
or or or kind of this idea of forced
like trade-off to some degree. Do do you
think that's an unhelpful? Is that a
thing to accept or kind of a sort of not
the right way of looking at things or or
not true in some sense or so funny and
my 54 year old brain that doesn't make
sense. I'm trying to have my 28-year-old
brain where it makes perfect sense. Um,
and and there's just a fact like there
are tradeoffs.
I mean, that's undeniable.
Like I I It's funny.
Part of what happens in marriage I'm
noticing right now is what's happening
in my brain and what's happening in your
brain. It feels almost identical. That
was the first thing. I don't [__]
understand that question. Then I'm like,
but I know there's truth in it because I
remember feeling that way. And then the
second thing was I know there's
trade-offs, but there's not really
[__] trade-offs. So it's like this
hard I the second part I'm I'm assuming,
but there's it's it's a very hard
if I think about it, it's not how I
consider it at all. I think the way
the way that it seems like it works in
our marriage is
this doesn't feel right. How do how do
we want to address it together? So if
there's a lack of excitement, which I
don't think either of us have felt ever,
um then I would just say there's a lack
of excitement and I notice I'm like
creating there's some feeling of
distance because of that. And how do we
how do we want to address that? And it
wouldn't there would never be this
binary conversation of well I want this
and you want this and therefore it's we
we constantly work under the the
assumption that we can both get our
needs met in the relationship and we
just have to be creative about how to do
that and be willing to experiment and be
willing to be wrong and non-defensive to
get there. So to me, the what used to
look like, oh, I have to make a tradeoff
now just looks like
um how do we have a a a conversation
that allows us to see each other and and
be of support to each other? Yes. And
I'm remember I'm trying to remember like
trade-offs. When we had K I can I can
remember I can wrap my brain around
trade-offs now. we had kids. There was a
huge trade-off that was the source of
many of our early kid fights, which was
a lot of my friends had stay-at-home dad
partners. Nobody worked. They had uh
independent wealth or for whatever
reason they didn't have to have jobs.
And so, I had these models of like
full-time stay-at-home dads. And I
really wanted Joe to like that's what I
wanted, like a full-time stay-at-home
dad. But that wasn't our our financial
situation. We lived in Northern
California, San Francisco and or we were
maybe in where wherever we were at that
point and Joe was like working and
traveling and working to and I was
staying at home and it was like that was
very much a that was a tradeoff what
that I it was a source of many fights
though like come be a stay at home dad
and he's like oh if you could tell me
how I can make that work I'd quite
happily be a a stay-at-home dad or if
you want to go work and I was like I'm
not going to go work I like being home
with the kids. Um, so it was a source of
many fights,
but tradeoff wasn't even it was like,
how do we get then? What's the thing we
really want to get here? When we finally
got through the fight, it was like, oh,
I just want to feel more in it with you
that we're doing this together. And so,
we used to make our whole vacations in
the beginning about like getting back
online as parents and getting totally
aligned of how we're parenting. And um
so we would take the trade-off and well
then how do we want to how do we want to
create a life together instead of it
being a trade-off? What's what do we
want? What's the what's the thing under
it we're trying to get?
I remember this time I don't know if it
if it relates terra but I think uh we
there was Tara I would come home from
these conferences and this work and I
was traveling a lot doing venture
capital and Tara would just you just had
all this time off like I need and I'd be
like I you get to be home with the kids
and I need D and and the kids got a
little older and I was going to this
conference that was interesting to Tara
so Tara came with
and Terara was incredibly dedicated
mother. So like being away from the kids
was not going to be something that was
going to happen until they got older.
And so she comes to the conference and
then two days into the conference she's
like, "How the [__] do you do this? This
is so goddamn exhausting. Like what?"
And my whole system like let go because
I had felt so bad for going off into the
world and doing this stuff on some
subconscious level. I knew I needed to
do it. We both knew we needed to do it.
But there was this friction in the
marriage. And as soon as I felt seen in
that, like that whole that whole thing
could collapse. And I think I remember
that moment being one of the moments of
recognizing, oh, so much of a fight is
just not being seen, just not not being
able to look and like feel where the
other person is at and then communicate
that.
You have a course on on how to fight.
Well, so let's let's say let's say more
about that. Um, you know, so much of it
is is about not being seen. Um, what
would it look like to sort of make sure
that that people are seeing each other
or what would it look like to eliminate
some of the root causes of of a lot of
these fights? Being seen is the the most
important part about seeing somebody
else is dropping your own shame. If
you're dropping your own shame, you're
either beating yourself up for it, which
makes the person feel unseen, or you're
attacking them so they they don't feel
seen. So the most important thing is to
see yourself clearly enough to let go of
the shame and and then once you do that
then your heart can come online and then
you speak from your heart. So like
what's really common in in our world is
Tara would say to me something like
um there's nothing in me that wants you
to feel like you've done anything wrong
right now or there's no part of me that
wants you to feel ashamed or bad about
this situation. And so
that level of communication, it like
helps tremendously. But you can't do
that if you're in your own shame.
Because if you're in your own shame, it
comes out
like you,
I can't believe you didn't see that I
blah blah blah. Or yeah, I [__] up.
I'm going to cry now to resolve the
fight.
And neither of those things really work.
And so what's interesting is that like
what that ends up meaning for my exist
my existence with Tara is that
the only way I could actually make our
marriage work was to learn how to love
myself.
And so and then the more I learn to love
myself the it increases my capacity to
love Tara. The more I can
unconditionally love myself the more I
can unconditionally love Tara
which is not what I expected marriage to
be. I'd say there's a second part too
which is when I'm saying I don't feel
seen
most of the time I'm also not seeing. So
a hack for me is um if I'm not feeling
seen to say okay hold on what am I not
seeing here? What am I missing? Tell me
tell me all about your experience. And
in doing so something in my defenses
drops and I actually get curious
and and then Joe will share all sorts of
things that and I'm like oh I didn't
know that. Then he's like, "Yeah, what
do you what do you what what what don't
I see?" And I like, but that asking,
"Oh, especially if I have a story, I I'm
not being seen here." If I can reverse
engineer it, like, okay, what am I not
seeing is just a hack and it helps me
drop my defenses and then I can go to
what am I not seeing? If I'm not being
seen, I'm also not seeing. And I can
find my through that my way through that
way.
you you guys are a big believer in in
sort of the you do be happy or do you
want to be right or sort of the you know
beyond the right and wrong there's a
field I'll meet you there quote or and
it's it's kind of easier said than done
in some sense in terms of in the heat of
the moment to not kind of moralize or to
not get bothered by the perceived
wrongness of of someone else I think
every single fight hack is about moving
through right and wrong or you bad me
bad if if if I'm triggered by Tara, I'm
projecting. I just that's just 100%
true. So if I'm saying, "God damn it,
Tara, you're not listening to me." I'm
not listening to her on some level. I'm
not listening to her. If I say um god
damn it, Tara,
when I used to say I don't I don't I
can't remember the last time I said,
"God damn it, Tara." But you know, god
damn it, Tara, you're not doing enough
around the house. Then I I also feel
like I'm not doing enough around the
house on some level. So, one of the
hacks is, oh, if I'm triggered, I know
that like there's no question in my mind
anymore that I know that that's about
me, that I know that I'm it doesn't mean
that she's not doing it. It just means
that I am also doing it. So, I'm going
to pay attention to that first. And
explain that a little bit more. Like,
what if you are doing a lot around the
house to use that example and she's not
how is that about you? Um, I'm think I
have my context is messed up. meaning,
oh yeah, you're not earning the money
and you're not going out every day to
conferences and so yeah, I'm doing a lot
around the house. What I'm not seeing is
that she hasn't had adult time in
[__] three months cuz she's like with
a little kids and what I'm not seeing is
that she's doing the dishes.
So it, you know, if I'm if I'm triggered
by that, that's and I mean I remember
I think this one's a more recent trick
that we have that
anytime I see Tara doing anything for
our mutual benefit, I thank her. One to
give myself grat like to feel the
gratitude that I have, but also because
I know I cannot see everything Tara
does.
And so, but but I think principally what
I'm saying is that
that if there's if I am upset, it's
about me
because Tara cannot be doing stuff
around the house and it doesn't have to
upset me. I can just say, "Hey, I need
you to do more stuff around the house."
And she could be like, "I'm doing plenty
of stuff around the house." And I can
say, "Yeah, I hear that you're doing
plenty of stuff around the house and I'm
feeling this way. How do we want to
handle that?" And but as soon as I'm
defensive or as soon as my heart shuts
down or as soon as I like I'm I'm not
being the person that I want to be then
it that's me that's mine. Also there's
one other thing which is then you're in
like black and white thinking it there's
no gray area and there's no way to solve
that other than one person does more is
the only sol if that's the fight you're
not doing enough around the house.
There's only one there's only one way to
solve that issue and that's not a real
solve. That's like a, you know, a
pitchfork solve. Whereas, you know,
early fights would have around the
dishes like you're not doing enough
dishes and would both be in these
corners of like I'm I'm doing a million
other things. What what like why are the
dishes so important? And when we could
step out of those corners, which were
with the you're not doing enough dishes,
the only solve was Joe does more dishes.
But when we could step out of our
corners, there's like, "Oh, we're we
have a we have two kids and a traveling
husband. We can get paper dishes. Oh, we
can ask stepparents to come in or
parents to come in an hour a week and
hang with the kids while someone does
dishes. We could hire someone to come in
and do dishes. We could get a better
dishwasher." Like, we weren't seeing the
million of other solutions were possible
when it was just you're doing this. Even
if that's true that he wasn't doing
dishes
and or andor we weren't really solving
the base problem which is we're both
overwhelmed, we're both exhausted, we're
both overwhelmed and right, maybe the
solution is you take two days off and
I'll just handle everything and then I
get two days off and handle everything
because at least that way we both get
two days off and we're less exhausted.
or getting the whole system more
support. The whole system, the whole
family system needs more support. And so
when people say something to you like,
"Hey, you know, I'm really into this
person, but they trigger me a lot." Um,
are you saying, "Hey, you know, maybe
you can work those through those
triggers and they'll trigger you less
and and maybe this is a opportunity,
maybe this is the person you should be
with." Or is it, "Hey, you know, maybe
this person is maybe there'll be a more
stable dynamic or or something like what
do you what do you say to that common
dynamic that that this person they
people who trigger each other a lot?" I
could never say one-sizefits-all with
that statement. I it would be so context
dependent and like what's the trigger
and are you excited about the triggers
and working through them or does it make
it a no in your system or is it way too
much like a is it too much that you're
not going to be able to work through it.
I I wouldn't have a one-sizefits-all
answer to that. But I would say like oh
if someone's triggering you great there
is freedom there
whether you stay in the relationship or
not. That is a source of freedom and you
can take the freedom or leave it. That's
your choice. There's no there's no right
and wrong thing to do,
but any trigger is a source of freedom.
The Yeah. The only thing I would say on
top of it, typically I'm with Terra,
like there's no oneizefits-all except
for you get to choose freedom when you
get triggered. The other thing that I
would say is
most likely you're not being yourself.
You're not being true to yourself and
you're trying to manage their reaction.
So if you are in that situation, see
what it's like to be yourself.
Be who exactly who you want to be in
these moments and then see what happens
as re relationship gets stronger,
doesn't fall apart. And speaking of
falling apart, what advice do you have
for for breakups in terms of how to make
them sort of trans, you know, helpful
for personal growth? Grieve.
Grieve alone. Grieve together. Have a
grieving ritual. Bring your community in
if you can. Like grieve. Grieve. Grieve
the relationship. Then grieve everything
that got you into the relationship. Then
grieve all your patterns that have been
causing you misery that showed up in the
relationship. Grieve it all. The hopes
and dreams that die with that
relationship, the false future that dies
with the relationship. Yeah. Grieve the
whole the whole thing. I think
that grieving process is super important
because there's that phrase, same [__]
different shovel, right? You end one
relation, but in grieving it, you're
honoring what was there and honoring
what didn't work and honoring the whole
thing and grieving it. And then you have
a chance of a different choice on the
other side of grief. Grief changes us
truly grieving. Yeah. Everybody I know
who doesn't grieve a relationship's
ending repeats it. Everybody I know who
deeply grieavves their relationship
ending doesn't repeat the relationship.
And we believe in that so much. I would
say that in every time of those years
that we're in that conflict, one of the
things we do is we grieve the marriage
as if it was going to die like that.
We've lost it. It's all and so we grieve
and feel all the things that we don't
want to feel in the end of a
relationship so that we can show up as
ourselves again and and recommmit.
And so that's been a huge part of our
process is to like fully grieve the fact
that this whole thing might be gone
so that we can say the things that are
true to us so that we can be ourselves
as we've changed and then meet each
other again. And that's not just tears,
that's anger, that's fear, that's
excitement, that's moving all of, you
know, grief encompasses all those
emotions, moving all the whole all the
emotions around it, being with them,
processing them. Some people have have
come on this show and said, "Hey, if if
you if you pick the right person for
you, um, you know, they've said we we
kind of underthink the pick." Uh, and if
we pick the right person, um, then maybe
it doesn't feel like constant work
because you you're you've just found the
right person. You're you're you're the
right you're a perfect fit or you're the
right fit. Whereas other people have
said, "Hey, that's a little bit
romantic. there's there's lots of people
for whom you could have a great fit with
and most of the work happens after
you've you've picked the person. So
don't uh sort of overthink the the the
pick a as much. Um are you obviously
there's no oneizefits-all, but are you
more in one camp or the other or how
would you even comment on on sort of or
think about this? I I notice a dynamic
that typically people who are like it's
just a great fit and here we are and we
don't have a lot of issues
usually have a pretty in 25 years most
of them seem to have a pretty dead
marriage or one of them looks up one day
and says you know you're Snickers and
I've just decided I like Mars. So like I
see a lot of a lot of relationships end
that way that seemed like oh look we
have a great relationship
and it just follow that it all builds up
underneath. Um so that's the pattern
I've seen. I I'm open to maybe there's
that's not an exclusive pattern but it's
a pattern that I've seen. I would say
yep I would agree with that. And I I
think back to there was a teacher
beloved teacher a teacher I loved Sabon
Fu S who came from
um a part of Africa where they had
arranged marriages and not that I'm
encouraging arranged marriages but she
talked about how when you fall in love
with your perfect partner you stop at
the top you start at the top of the
mountain and the only place to go is
down like falling down a mountain
whereas with an arranged marriage with
putting together with someone, you have
to build and um muscle strength and
strengthen the marriage to get up the
mountain. So, it's a building building
building and creating structure to get
to the top of the mountain. And so,
I think that marriage is about building
and creating structures and attachments.
with about you know just under 10
minutes left. What what have we not
talked about or what have you not shared
around either um you know finding the
right partner or being ready for the
right partner or of course you know once
you're making a partnership really great
in terms of lessons that you've learned
or or things that you find yourself
sharing to others or or common mistakes
that you you find people make. I think
we've said this but I'll say it again.
Get support. Get your community support.
Get a couple. We have a couple circle.
Get your couple's therapist or coach or
get support. Like none of us have really
great models for long-term
relationships. Most of us don't. Um or
we only have one model, our parents. So,
go get go get other models. Go get
support would be my first thing.
One thing I would see is that if you
have a repeating pattern in your
relationships, then that's also a way
you treat yourself.
So if you keep on having a jealous
girlfriend or if you keep on having an
abusive
boyfriend, then your voice in your head
is abusing you or that you have a
jealous relationship with yourself.
And and I think at the the weird thing
is the more the more I see in the world,
the more I can say that the
essence is really about how much love
you are willing to receive.
Like the essence of it is we we are all
scared shitless of the amount of love
that's available to us. And that so much
of our behavior is just pushing love
away because we are so scared of the
annihilation that it will cause.
And it does it causes annihilation. I
mean on one level
how do this is a such a hard thing to
communicate but on you know
all my ego had to had to get annihilated
to be a great husband even more so to be
a great dad. You know the all the things
that I thought I was and wasn't you know
it's like a deep tissue massage in that
way. If you resist you're [__] It's
going to hurt. So, you just got to give
in. And um and that's a scary
proposition.
Terra's got something else she's
thinking. Yeah. Well, I'd say it you
it's a matter of the we're talking about
a ma we've been logically talking about
it all and the logical decision- making,
but it is a matter of the heart and
listening really learning how to listen
to and follow the heart and trusting
your own heart and from your heart
feeling your partner's heart. So, you're
coming down below level of mind. And
would you say, Tara, you're more uh is
is Joe like slightly more heady than you
or
how How would you I would say once upon
a time we were equally heady
and
now I'd say he can be more guty than me
but he translates it to head language.
So I'd say at different times it's been
like oh you're really in your head. No
you're really in your head. Like that
would have been one fight at one period
in our lives but I'd say we both have
been really heady. We both um
Yeah. No, I wouldn't say he's more heady
than I am. that you know 10 years ago I
would have been Yeah. Isn't that
annoying? I feel so seen.
Thank you. I had no idea what you were
going to answer to that one. That No, I
I You translate it to the head really
quickly. Do you have any uh any
questions of each other? Uh yeah, I have
one. Uh how would you feel about having
more podcasts together? I am really
[__] enjoying this. I love this. So
funny. Head says no. Hell no. Heart
says, "Yeah,
Tara the heart." Terra the heart wins.
Truth.
Question. When are you coming home? I'll
be home in about four hours. I miss you.
Maybe one last one that comes to mind
because other people other guests have
said that uh every seven years or every
10 years they they also have a big big
big sort of thing come up. You know, you
you mentioned in that that there's
something similar for you guys.
What what's that like? What what um why
is there a rhythm to it? Or what's an
example of a of a type of thing that
that people who are, you know, just
nearing th those those timelines should
be aware of or ready for.
Hormones are real.
Male and female male and female hormones
are real. That changes [__]
Kids Kids change hormones. That changes
[__] Right. Our our big boom came with
any kind of big life change. Like when
we went from being two single people to
being married was one boom. Then when we
went to bringing children in, that was
another kind of reassessment because we
really had to change who we were. Who we
were was changing, like it or not. And
so the marriage had to change. And then
job career shifts, that's another one.
Or working together, starting a company
together, that was another big one for
us.
One kid leaving hasn't been, but I
imagine when two kids leave that might
be another. We had both kids leave for
the first time last summer and we were
like, "This is this is going to get
dicey." And then we were like, "Nope,
that was just [__] awesome.
It was so delicious." Like fell in love
with each other again in that way that
pre-kids.
I don't know if that'll be the case when
they're both out of the house for a long
term. I was just going to say life
changes seem to be for us when when and
I imagine like as aging retirement
probably will be one. So you could just
know if you're going into a big life
change like you're going to ever retire.
I know. But uh I I hope you do do future
episodes together. Um, you know, for
people who are just listening to this
for for the first time, you you guys
have also or or Joe, you've done
episodes with your daughter and they're
incredible to to to listen to. And I
hope and you did an episode recently
with uh Nathan Bashz on parenting and on
your podcast, The Art of Accomplishment.
And I hope you do more together on on
parenting, maybe on on working together.
I uh this has been a fantastic
discussion. Thank you so much for for
coming on the podcast. What a pleasure.
Good to be with you, Eric. Thank you. So
fun to be with you, Eric. And you too,
Joe.
[Music]